---
layout: post
title: Hello World - The start of something good
categories: leadership web_dev
include_image: false

excerpt: The very beginnings of Codified Musings.  Why I blog including what I hope to express, learn and teach.

meta_keywords: leadership
---

> This post was orginially written to inaugurate my blog - Codified Musings.  Since then, my focus has shifted a bit but the general sentiment remains: I write because it's enjoyable and helps with my own understanding of the world.  I suppose others may read this - which would be awesome, but is not necessarily my intention.
> I've considered revising this post many times; the writing style does not much my newer posts and I really find it slightly embarrasing.  Nonetheless, this musing is codified.

It’s been a while since I first had my first urge to start blogging; it’s nice to finally be putting words to the page.  I’ve learned an immense amount, in a variety of fields, from blogs of individuals far more ambitious than I.  There’s something to be said for the ability to discover a thought then so thoroughly discover and explore it so as to create meaning for others.  As we enter an era where information is so readily accessible, there is great value in the ability to take vast, gooey gobs of information and produce some sort of simple, tasty meaning.

While I've always found writing therapeutic, I look forward to blogging as a means to better understand my own thoughts and musings.  Whether it's a cool algorithm from class or a challenge on a current development project, thinking through concepts to the degree of explaining them to others seems like a great way to cement my own understanding.  Call it selfish, and perhaps it is, but I do hope to share thoughts and practical development techniques that serve value to many.  I think it’s beautiful and remarkable when a person can synthesize information and express ensuing thoughts in a manner that doesn’t inform or educate as much as inspire others to pursue their own intellectual adventures in a similar field.

With these formative thoughts, I’ve decided to take a more active role in this important and thoroughly entertaining process of creating information for the 21st century (I figured we could use some more…).  This is not something I seek to do alone; indeed - my best thoughts are unmistakably influenced and bettered by the perspective of others.  I will strive to give credit where credit is due in these scenarios both for the sake of professional credence and to better connect the wealth of information that’s otherwise frustratingly impossible to parse.  To me,   I’m sure that over the course of writing, a number of these people will making guest appearances in the thoughts I express.  In addition, I am genuinely excited for the many more that I will inevitably find while searching for the perfect perspective to best inform an idea I’m creating.

Having concretely made the decision to start writing - and having expressed the inspiration for doing so - I suppose that what remains is the question of what to write about. I figure I should probably just write about those topics that best  capture my passions.  Currently, these topics are computer science (with an emphasis on web development) and effective leadership.

Computer science is fairly self explanatory; there are a number of high level concepts and theories that I find thoroughly captivating and look forward to exploring publicly.  Specifically, I love algorithms and artificial intelligence because both have such far reaching implications for high level problem solving and understanding of interactions with the world around us.  I know I’m not alone in finding beauty amidst the most elegant solutions to the most complex problems.  In studying computer science, I’ve had the fortune of being able to take incredible classes taught by some of the most inspiring thinkers of our time.  This has been marred, however, by the misfortune of having too little time to thoroughly study, explore and enjoy the content I find irresistibly intriguing.

Effective leadership - on the other hand - is a concept and quality that I’ve come to respect, admire and strive for through experience in various leadership capacities over recent years.  “Leaders” are so much more than individuals with positional power or vast responsibility.  A leader is any individual who takes an active role in some social environment.  A leader has objectives and ideals that are larger than himself; others are necessary to fulfill the vision of a leader and it’s the leader’s responsibility to not only orchestrate the efforts of others to realize these abstract ideals, but to simply communicate these ideals to the group as well (which can be exceedingly difficult).  Through recent observation and practice of leadership in a wealth of scenarios, I’ve made some realizations that have better informed my own concept of a leader.  I’ve found that there are positional leaders who have some innate structural power to be exercised with strategy and precision.  There are those who excel in leading by example - doing what they believe to be right even in the most trying of circumstances.  There are leaders who seem magical in their ability to inspire and encourage others to find exciting individual potential that had previously gone entirely unnoticed.   And the list goes on.  

The greatest leaders, however, are some winning combination of all these “types” of leaders.  Truly great leadership unnoticed.  Well…almost unnoticed.  Working with such a leader leaves one brimming with fulfillment, a sense of achievement and inspiration beyond words.  A great leader can’t help but create (through inspiring transformative thought and realization in others) new leaders who are very effective in entirely different ways.  It is an art as much as it is a talent carefully grown and tuned through years of experience.  An effective leader (by my own assertion) is this breed of great leader with the added requirement of actually getting things done.  An effective leader and - more importantly - those she works with, achieve their objectives and further their ideals in a demonstrable and often measurable manner.

With these loose targets for the writing to come, I very much look forward to producing more thoughts that - if nothing else - will be fun to think!