---
layout: post
title: Mirrors
categories: leadership
include_image: true
image: paper_towns.jpg 

excerpt: Whether it’s a new sense of humor or a new way to treat a teammate, it is very important that leaders are able to see an accurate picture of how incremental changes in one’s self actually manifest.  Good leaders need an impactful, objective way to wrap their head around themselves in the same way that good leaders empathize with and understand those that they lead.

meta_description: Mirrors are individuals who provide great leaders with the space to objectively introspect to better themselves.

meta_keywords: leadership, mirrors, paper towns
---


# Mirrors
I recently finished<a href="http://www.amazon.com/Paper-Towns-John-Green/dp/014241493X/ref=sr_1_1?ie=UTF8&amp;qid=1406612737&amp;sr=8-1&amp;keywords=paper+towns"> <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Paper Towns</span> </a>by John Green; it’s an excellent book but you probably already know that given how popular it is.  Alternatively - if you haven’t read a fiction book in like over a year, you’re doing yourself a extreme disservice.  It’s summer - pick up a good one, I promise it will be worth your time.  I used to be like you, until I read this book that is, and now I’m happy enough to write a blog post about it.

Anyways, in <span style="text-decoration: underline;">Paper Towns</span> there is quite a bit of talk about mirrors.  Mirrors that are much greater than you’re typical reflective rectangle in that they reflect an image of who <i>you</i> really are.  This type of mirror affords the rare opportunity for (near) clear introspection.  Because a traditional shiny rectangle would hardly be up for such an abstract task, this type of mirror is a person.  A friend, some would say.

I found this to be a remarkably interesting concept, and one that relates rather beautifully with my own idea of leadership.  A leader - or at least anyone who hopes to continue being a leader - is able to change.  Leaders mature, leaders grow and leaders gain perspective that furthers their own ability to relate with and understand others.  This - conveniently enough - allows them to lead a team of humans, who - by nature - change, grow and learn all of time as well.

This process of positive growth would be impossible without a really good mirror.  Whether it’s a new sense of humor or a new way to treat a teammate, it is very important that leaders are able to see an accurate picture of how incremental changes in one’s self actually manifest.  Good leaders need an impactful, objective way to wrap their head around themselves in the same way that good leaders empathize with and understand those that they lead.

This is where the friend comes in.  But not just any friend.  We’re talking about the type of friend who understands you on levels you have yet to discover exist.  This is probably then friend you’d go to when life gets real; the friend who knows not only what to say but how and when to say it.

This is the friend who can reflect you.  And the better they are, the better you’ll become.  As you grow as a leader, you’ll be able to see yourself (albeit through the perspective of this mirror) and actively reflect on the person you’re becoming. Like what you see?  Forge ahead!  Is some part of your reflection a little different than expected?  Not a problem - luckily you’ve got this awesome, reflective friend to help you work on…you.

Obviously there’s no way that this mirror is perfect.  It’s not like a traditional mirror that just reflects light back at you - pixel for pixel.  No, this mirror is jaded and enhanced by the very person who comprises it.  Because of this, it’s all too easy to disregard the image put forth by your mirror.  Maybe they’re jealous or they let political beliefs get in the way.  Maybe they’re jaded by religion or blinded by issues they, too, are struggling with.

Or maybe - just maybe - you have one of those mirrors that you can without a doubt always trust.  Now this is a valuable mirror.  If you trust your mirror, then you trust it’s reflection of yourself.  And, if you have a trustworthy conception of yourself, you’re in an incredible position to shape, refine, grow and enhance the one person in this world who is you.  Cool, huh?  Who’s your best mirror?